yeah Northumberland must be the last
bastion of rural countryside in Britain
here amongst the fells the valleys and
where the north time flows people here
eat in a strange way this this is what
they eat not as it is done in the
succulent South a luxury here it's quite
a common dish in fact it's so cheap and
so plentiful and people are so bored
with it I couldn't find a real
Northumbrian person to cook me well but
what I did find was awaking a waking who
is called eBay I should call her deep
and crisp and even because that's how I
remember it
and she's a great pheasant plucker
difficult to say if you've had one or
two and as a waiking who's been raping
and pillaging for a thousand years she
is going to cook something for us it
demonstrates her understanding of
Northumberland tick because I don't feel
very well today I've got a cold and all
that what do they do with this I'm going
to skin it take the breast off which I'm
going to cook in Mead meat now you are
talking to me in a nice way there what
is actually I know you can drink it what
is neat that's heavenly if it's a honey
based drink that was actually brought
over by the Vikings ah plug the Vikings
yeah
this is what they fired themselves up on
when they when they charged on their
cricket club tour we stop plucking the
pheasant but it is true that what I said
isn't it that the locals are not
desperately keen on eating it say in the
hotel or restaurant because it is such a
common sort of this for them yeah that's
right
it's Sag we they they usually sort of
eat the Lambs and beef and things like
that but it's as far as I'm concerned
it's one of the nicest sort of meats you
can get
that's what it eats is my farmers a bit
cross the disease all their little okay
well you can on plucking away there we
all know what plucking the right we've
got actually gotta get all the real
cooking that what you should do and I've
pinched people crisper knee burns recipe
here you'll get these lovely Phillips of
the pheasant and these are still what
they're shot in probably upset some
people what I used to do in the olden
days in my restaurant to make things
really authentic place to have a little
tray of split shot and put it in the
dish at the last moment just in case
they thought they were home reared ones
anyway these breasts of pheasant have
been marinated for how long even hours
just as you probably already know the
the Vikings and the old sort of
northumberland way of cooking was to try
and keep everything simple and also they
just didn't need to disguise any any any
real sort of meats with anything because
it was so fresh right okay well let's
get to do some cooking I mean the gas is
okay whiz around in one of your steady
slow walks Richard we'll find ourselves
over here well we've already rigid
close-ups in here if you please we've
already sweated off or melted down or
softened a few onions what they do
Steven no seasoning at this stage no I
just think that sizzle away let them get
brown and golden on both sides like that
so that they seize up and seal Richard
if you don't mind close up and then
organize the wibbly-wobbly shot so that
we can come back
and certainly this mellifluous and the
liquid will make all the difference of
the new forensic sweetness and light it
is good work - I might have meticulous
what's next then you add some double
cream - right but first we're just gonna
cook the alcohol from the meat off take
the breast out take them up on your dish
spilled all over the place - that
doesn't matter that's what those dishes
in a moment cream into their life yeah I
mean how I mean this is your invention
isn't it this dish I mean this is a
awaking northumbrian marriage I suppose
yes it's so simple but I prefer simple
dishes that are really tasty in that is
tasty actually
and if you think this is a very very
rich dish when if it's too fruity and
too sweet to go with game think about
pork and apple sauce think about Venice
the red currant jelly I mean the the
thinking behind this dish is perfectly
okay the savory meat and the sweet sauce
what there's over onto the table my
darling and then we can write this as
usual the proof of the pudding is in the
eating
if it isn't brilliant I'm cutting you
out of the program I know
Marvis it is gamey and sweet and I'm
always worried about dishes that have
honey and cream in the middle I feel
it's an excuse for not cooking properly
sometimes but I mean you did reduce it
all pop in all nicely really does work
it's and lovely long even numbers and up
with the Vikings